We have ğ˜ğ˜Šğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜§ğ˜ªğ˜¨ğ˜¶ğ˜³ğ˜¢ğ˜µğ˜ªğ˜°ğ˜¯ to retrieve data from json, but it is not strongly typed. 

And there come ğˆğğ©ğ­ğ¢ğ¨ğ§ğ¬ instances to help us with other benefits.

Now, let's simplify these Options. 

ğğ©ğ­ğ¢ğ¨ğ§ğ¬ ğ©ğšğ­ğ­ğğ«ğ§ gives our classes or settings strongly typed configuration and with enough features. 

It helps to encapsulate our settings. 

Let's look into these patterns 


ğ“ğ¡ğ ğˆğğ©ğ­ğ¢ğ¨ğ§ğ¬<> ğ©ğšğ­ğ­ğğ«ğ§:
It is registered as singleton and it retrieves data after the application has compiled and save to memory. 

It does not read updated settings at runtime.

Don't be shocked at debugging when you try to read an updated setting and you still not getting the current value/values. 

Use it when the setting does not change at runtime. 


ğ“ğ¡ğ ğˆğğ©ğ­ğ¢ğ¨ğ§ğ¬ğ’ğ§ğšğ©ğ¬ğ¡ğ¨ğ­<> ğ©ğšğ­ğ­ğğ«ğ§: 
It is registered as scooped and can only be used in scooped or transient services.

It can retrieve updated data for each request which makes it a good choice when you need to read updated values at runtime.


ğ“ğ¡ğ ğˆğğ©ğ­ğ¢ğ¨ğ§ğ¬ğŒğ¨ğ§ğ¢ğ­ğ¨ğ«<> ğ©ğšğ­ğ­ğğ«ğ§:
It's registered as singleton. It retrieves data in anytime at runtime and save to memory. 

ğ˜šğ˜ªğ˜®ğ˜ªğ˜­ğ˜¢ğ˜³ğ˜ªğ˜µğ˜º ğ˜£ğ˜¦ğ˜µğ˜¸ğ˜¦ğ˜¦ğ˜¯ ğ˜ğ˜–ğ˜±ğ˜µğ˜ªğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜´<> ğ˜¢ğ˜¯ğ˜¥ ğ˜ğ˜–ğ˜±ğ˜µğ˜ªğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜´ğ˜”ğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜ªğ˜µğ˜°ğ˜³<>
They are registered as Singleton. 

ğ˜šğ˜ªğ˜®ğ˜ªğ˜­ğ˜¢ğ˜³ğ˜ªğ˜µğ˜º ğ˜£ğ˜¦ğ˜µğ˜¸ğ˜¦ğ˜¦ğ˜¯ ğ˜ğ˜–ğ˜±ğ˜µğ˜ªğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜´ğ˜šğ˜¯ğ˜¢ğ˜±ğ˜´ğ˜©ğ˜°ğ˜µ<> ğ˜¢ğ˜¯ğ˜¥ ğ˜ğ˜–ğ˜±ğ˜µğ˜ªğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜´ğ˜”ğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜ªğ˜µğ˜°ğ˜³<>
They can retrieve data in any time at runtime. 

ğ˜‹ğ˜ªğ˜§ğ˜§ğ˜¦ğ˜³ğ˜¦ğ˜¯ğ˜¤ğ˜¦ ğ˜£ğ˜¦ğ˜µğ˜¸ğ˜¦ğ˜¦ğ˜¯ ğ˜ğ˜–ğ˜±ğ˜µğ˜ªğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜´<> ğ˜¢ğ˜¯ğ˜¥ ğ˜ğ˜–ğ˜±ğ˜µğ˜ªğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜´ğ˜”ğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜ªğ˜µğ˜°ğ˜³<>
IOptions<>: It reads data after the application has compiled(not for updated data).
IOptionsSnapshot<>: It can read data at anytime. 

ğ˜‹ğ˜ªğ˜§ğ˜§ğ˜¦ğ˜³ğ˜¦ğ˜¯ğ˜¤ğ˜¦ ğ˜£ğ˜¦ğ˜µğ˜¸ğ˜¦ğ˜¦ğ˜¯ ğ˜ğ˜–ğ˜±ğ˜µğ˜ªğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜´ğ˜šğ˜¯ğ˜¢ğ˜±ğ˜´ğ˜©ğ˜°ğ˜µ<> ğ˜¢ğ˜¯ğ˜¥ ğ˜ğ˜–ğ˜±ğ˜µğ˜ªğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜´ğ˜”ğ˜°ğ˜¯ğ˜ªğ˜µğ˜°ğ˜³<>
IOptionsSnapshot<>: It's registered as scoped. 
IOptionsMonitor<>: it's registered as singleton. 